As we began to discuss in a previous video,
managing expectations of stakeholders regarding
data science projects is key to ensuring the success of those projects.
There are several aspects of setting
expectations that you'll want to consider as a data science later.
First, you need to be realistic about the project's potential value to the business.
When you're first selling the idea of a data science project,
it could be tempting to exaggerate the benefits that the project is likely to realize.
While this may lead to initial excitement for the data science project,
it will ultimately threaten the project's long-term viability as it becomes
increasingly unlikely to deliver on unrealistic expectations.
A second aspect of setting expectations has to do with
the likelihood of the project delivering on the value that's expected of it.
Are there risks and uncertainties in whether the project will deliver?
These need to be acknowledged upfront so that if something should
arise that calls the success of the project into question,
stakeholders will not be caught unaware
because you will have already addressed that issue with them beforehand.
A third aspect of setting expectations has to do with the timing of value capture.
How long will it take for the project to deliver on its promise.
I once had a CEO who was convinced that machine learning projects could not
possibly deliver value until their third year of being in implementation.
This is clearly a misconception.
On the flip side, communicating
overly aggressive timelines can hurt your project's prospects as well,
as stakeholders tend not to accept repeated delays with much grace and understanding.
Finally, setting expectations involves communicating
any risks and potential blockers for the project.
Is there a risk that the project might bring negative press?
Might it possibly contribute to discord in the organization?
Might organizational factors potentially block the success of the project?
Identifying risks and potential blockers
upfront can help build credibility for you as the project leader,
and can help stakeholders weather
the challenges that will inevitably pop up along the way.